# A-robust-method-for-detecting-positive-selection-on-regulatory-sequences-
We present an in silico mutagenesis based approach to transcription factor binding sites evolution, based on a machine learning model of binding.
1.  The procedures of detecting positive selection

1).	Firstly, we defined a positive training set and its corresponding negative training set. The positive training set is ChIP-seq narrow peaks of transcription factors. The negative training set is an equal number of sequences which randomly sampled from the genome with matched the length, GC content and repeat fraction of the positive training set. This negative training set was generated by using “genNullSeqs”, a function of gkm-SVM R package (Ghandi et al. 2016). Then, we trained a gkm-SVM with default parameters except -l=10 (meaning we use 10-mer as feature to distinguish positive and negative training sets). The classification performance of the trained gkm-SVM was measured by using receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves with fivefold cross-validation. The gkm-SVM training and cross-validation were achieved by using the “gkmtrain” function of “LS-GKM : a new gkm-SVM software for large-scale datasets” (Lee 2016). For details, please check https://github.com/Dongwon-Lee/lsgkm. 

2).  Generate SVM weights of all possible 10-mers
The SVM weights of all possible 10-mers were generated by using the “gkmpredict” function of “LS-GKM”. 

3).	Infer ancestor sequence
The ancestor sequence was inferred from sequence alignment with a sister species and an outgroup. 

4).	Calculate deltaSVM
We calculated the sum of weights of all 10-mers for ancestor sequence and focal sequence respectively. The deltaSVM is the sum weights of focal sequence minus the sum weights of ancestor sequence. The positive deltaSVM indicating substitutions increased the binding affinity in the focal sequence, vice versus. 

5).	Generate Empirical Null Distribution of deltaSVM 
Firstly, we counted the number of substitutions between the ancestor sequence and the focal sequence. Then, we generated a random pseudo-focal sequence by randomly introducing the same number of substitutions to the ancestor sequence. Finally, we calculated the deltaSVM between the pseudo-focal sequence and the ancestor sequence. We repeated the above processes 10000 times to get 10000 expected deltaSVMs. The perl script "" used to perfome this analysis. this script modified from...The input is .. and out put is...

6).	Calculate p-value of deltaSVM
For lineage specific gain TFBSs, the p-value was calculated as the probability that the expected deltaSVM is higher than the observed deltaSVM (higher-tail test). For lineage specific lose TFBSs, the p-value was calculated as the probability that the expected deltaSVM is lower than the observed deltaSVM (lower-tail test). For conserved TFBSs, we primarily focused on selection to increase binding affinity, and thus we performed higher-tail test. The motivation for this is that when we have ChIP-seq data in only one species, which is the most common case, the observed peaks are a mix of conserved and gained sites, and thus very little signal of decrease of binding is expected. The p-value can be interpreted as the probability that the observed deltaSVM could arise by chance. 

2. The script used to generate all figures in the paper

3. the data used to generate all figures in the paper

